# Table of Contents
1. [Policy for working with Branches and Pull Requests](#policy-for-working-with-branches-and-pull-requests)
2. [Writing Good Commit Messages](#writing-good-commit-messages)

## Policy for working with Branches and Pull Requests

### General Rules

- `main` branch should always be deployable. Typically there is a staging (demo) system from the main branch
- PRs should be merged into `main`.

### Before Creating a Branch

- Ensure you're working from an up-to-date `main`.

### Naming Branches

- Choose from the following prefixes:
  - `feat/` for new features.
  - `fix/` for bug fixes.
  - `chore/` for routine tasks.
  - `docs/` for documentation.
  - `style/` for code styling.
  - `rf/` for refactoring.
  - `perf/` for performance improvements.
  - `test/` for test changes.
  
- If related to an issue, include issue ID: `feat/123-short-title`.
- Do not use special characters or Umlaute in branch-names. Keep an eye on that if you use githubs autoname function for branches. 

### Before Submitting a PR

- Ensure code passes all checks (lint, tests).
- Have comprehensive documentation.
  
### After Submitting a PR

- Assign a reviewer, if needed.
- Ensure PR passes CI checks.

### After PR Approval

- Merge PR into `main`.
- Delete the branch.

### CI/CD and Environment

- `main` should have a staging system.
- New versions are generated by tagging `main`.

### Release Manager's Role

A designated Release Manager is assigned to each project. This individual is responsible for overseeing the release process and may set additional PR guidelines.

Furhtor tasks of the Release Manager:
- Responsible for coordinating releases.
- Validates that changes in main are reflected in a staging system (if exists).
- Manages version tagging.
- Initiates the deployment process.

--- 
## Writing Good Commit Messages

### Structure

The commit message usually has a structure like this:

```
<type>(<scope>): <subject>
<BLANK LINE>
<body>
<BLANK LINE>
<footer>
```

1. **Type**: A word that categorizes the purpose of the commit (e.g., `feat`, `fix`, `chore`, `docs`, `style`, `rf`, `perf`, `test`, see below). 
2. **Scope**: An optional part that refers to the module or feature that is affected by the commit (e.g., `auth`, `dashboard`).
3. **Subject**: A brief description of the changes, starting with a verb in the present tense (e.g., `add`, `fix`).
4. **Body**: Detailed explanatory text, if necessary. Wrap it to about 72 characters or so.
5. **Footer**: Any associated issues, or breaking changes, etc.

Valid Types:
Specifies the type of commit. This could be one of the following:
  - `feat`: A new feature.
  - `fix`: A bug fix.
  - `chore`: Routine tasks or maintenance. Should not modify code. 
  - `doc`: Documentation changes.
  - `style`: Code style changes (e.g., formatting).
  - `rf`: Code refactoring. Previously `refactor` but it was shortened to `rf` only
  - `perf`: Performance improvements.
  - `test`: Adding or modifying tests

### Examples

1. **Simple Commit**  
    ``` 
    fix: correct minor typos in code
    ```

2. **Commit With Scope**
    ```
    feat(auth): add login via Google
    ```

3. **Commit with Body and Footer**
    ```
    rf(core): extract calculate method
    
    Move the calculate method from `main.js` to `utils.js` to eliminate code duplication.
    
    Closes #123
    ```

Variant 2. or 3. should preferred.
  
### Best Practices

1. Use the imperative mood ("add" not "added", "fix" not "fixed").
2. Limit the first line to 72 characters or fewer.
3. Capitalize the subject line.
4. Do not end the subject line with a period.
5. Use the body to explain "what" and "why" vs. "how".
6. Reference issues or pull requests liberally after the first line.
